---
layout: index
---

<div class="alert alert-success" role="alert">
  <h4 class="alert-heading">Registering for this course</h4>
  <p>If you are interested in taking this course, please fill out 
  <a href="https://forms.gle/Z9RufMdoA1YSfa5HA" style="color:#045321; text-decoration:underline;"><b>THIS SHORT FORM</b></a>.
  Due to the small class size, we will use the answers to balance student backgrounds and expertise.  To ensure commitment, we are not currently accepting audits.  
  </p>
</div>




## Overview


LLMs have opened new possibilities of automated agents that plan and complete tasks on the user’s behalf.  Such agents have the potential to usher in a new industrial revolution by automating organizational processes.   However, agents are currently limited to soft-edge tasks that have large tolerances for error, and are too unreliable for hard-edge tasks, like in healthcare or enterprises, where accuracy and reliability are paramount.  In short, what does it take for agents to be used in enterprises?

This graduate-level course will cut across the technology stack to examine the research questions that need to be answered for agents to be possible in real tasks that matter.    Each session will review 1-3 papers or systems, and discuss research opportunities that arise from the gap between existing research and enterprise requirements.  Topics will span systems (data systems and ML systems), AI (LLMs, agent-based planning), HCI, and theory (reinforcement learning, markets).   

Broad questions include

* What mechanisms are data systems missing to support agents?
* How does human-computer interaction change when the human interacts with agents?
* How can knowledge throughout an organization be used to constrain and improve agentic planning?
* How can systems handle the 10-100x increase in load generated by agents?
* What are the theoretical limits of what agents can do?
* At scale, how will the use of agents affect markets, incentives, and the structure of organizations?



#### Class Structure

* There will be assigned readings for each week
* Classes will be a mix of discussion about the papers, speculating about new problems, and external speakers
* Due to the speculative nature of the course, students are expected to co-investigate the problems alongside the instructors.   



## Recent Announcements


## Tentative Schedule


#### What We Want

- 1/21: Introduction & a quick history of agents - *Eugene & Kostis*
- 1/23: Use case: Bureaucracy - *Jeffrey Schlegelmilch*
- 1/28: Use case: TBA  
- 1/30: Use case: Enterprise applications  

#### WHERE WE ARE
- 2/4: Agentic Models  
- 2/6: Agent Benchmarks (workarena, swe-bench)  
- 2/13: Agents in Systems Optimization - *Shreya Shankar*
- 2/18: Agent Frameworks - *Phil Calçado*
- 2/20: Simulation for embodied agents - *Yunzhu Li*
- 2/25: RAG  
- 2/27: Serving - *Kostis Kaffes*

#### WHAT WE WANT: RELIABILITY VIA SIMULATION

- 3/4: Models: Simulation during Inference - *Xiao Yu*
- 3/6: Models: Neurosymbolic training - *Baishakhi Ray*
- 3/11: HAI: Hand-offs with humans and context - *Lydia Chilton*
- 3/13: Systems: Branching and simulation  
- 3/25: Systems: Long lived transactions  
- 3/26: Systems: Lineage - *Eugene Wu*
- 3/27: Systems: Data-flow Policies - *Eugene Wu*

#### WHAT WE WANT: SAFEGUARDS AND USABILITY

- 4/1: Monitoring  
- 4/3: HAI: Schema and Process Induction  
- 4/8: HAI: Evaluating agent outcomes  
- 4/10: Systems: ML for systems configuration  
- 4/15: Systems: Performance Hints  
- 4/17: Systems: Scheduling/Orchestration  
- 4/22: Summary: Agent-first systems  
- 4/24: Buffer


#### What You Did

* 4/29	Presentations
* 5/1	Presentations

<!--
<style>
.presenter { }
</style>

<table class="table  schedule">
  <thead>
  <tr>
    <th class="date" style="width: 5em; max-width: 15em;"> <p> <span>Date </span> </p> </th>
    <th style="min-width: 15%;"> <p> <span>Tues </span> </p> </th>
    <th style="min-width: 15%;"> <p> <span>Thurs </span> </p> </th>
    <th style="width: 10%"> <p> <span>Notes </span> </p> </th>
  </tr>
  </thead>
{% assign idx = 0 %}

{% for r in site.data.schedule %}
  {% if r.block %}
    <tr class="colored" style="background: #eee">
    <td colspan=4  style="text-align: center; font-size: bigger;" >
    <b style="font-size: 15pt;">{{r.block}}</b>
    </td>
    </tr>

  {% else %}
      {% assign idx = idx | plus: 1  %}

      <tr class="colored" style="background: {{r.color}}">
        <td class="date">W{{idx}}: {{r.topic}}</td>
        <td class="tues">
          <div class="date">{{r.date1}}</div>
          {% if r.link1 %}
            <a href="./papers#{{r.link}}"><b>{{r.slug1}}</b></a>
          {% else %}
            <b>{{r.slug1}}</b>
          {% endif %}

          {% if r.presenter1 %}
            <br/>
            <span class='presenter'>Presenter: {{r.presenter1}}</span>
          {% endif %}
        </td>

        <td class="thurs">
          <div class="date">{{r.date2}}</div>
          {% if r.link2 %}
            <a href="./papers#{{r.link}}"><b>{{r.slug2}}</b></a>
          {% else %}
            <b>{{r.slug2}}</b>
          {% endif %}

          {% if r.presenter2 %}
            <br/>
            <span class='presenter'>Presenter: {{r.presenter2}}</span>
          {% endif %}

        </td>
        <td class="notes">
          {% if r.notes %}
            {{r.notes|raw}}
          {% endif %}

          {% if r.misc %}
          <div> {{r.misc|raw}}</div>
          {% endif %}
        </td>
      </tr>
  {% endif %}
{% endfor %}

</table>
-->


